using-pantalaimon.md, before:

# How to use encrypted room #

Ement.el doesn't support encrypted rooms natively, but it can be used transparently with the E2EE-aware reverse proxy daemon [Pantalaimon](https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/).

1. [Install Pantalaimon](#Install-Pantalaimon)
2. [Configure Pantalaimon](#Configure-Pantalaimon)
3. [Verify the Pantalaimon session](#Verify-the-Pantalaimon-session)
4. [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting)

# Install Pantalaimon #

## Arch Linux

There is a [pantalaimon-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/pantalaimon-git) package in AUR.

```console
$ yay -S pantalaimon-git
```

## Alpine Linux

```
$ apk add pantalaimon pantalaimon-ui # Not tested
```

## Other

See https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/blob/master/README.md#installation

```console
$ pantalaimon --version
pantalaimon, version 0.10.5
```

# Configure Pantalaimon #

Create ta file in `~/.config/pantalaimon/pantalaimon.conf` with this contents

```conf
[local-matrix]
# Should be replaced with the server your are using if it isn’t matrix.org
Homeserver = https://matrix.org
ListenAddress = localhost
ListenPort = 8010
SSL = False
UseKeyring = False
IgnoreVerification = True
```

Then start the pantalaimon server.

```console
$ pantalaimon
======== Starting daemon for homeserver local-matrix on http://127.0.0.1:8010 ========
(Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Alternatively, you can also use the `--log-level debug` option to see what is going on if something doesn’t work.

```console
$ pantalaimon --log-level debug
```

Now if you open http://localhost:8010/ you should see the https://matrix.org/ web page. If you get a error about `ssl`, go [here](#cannot-connect-to-host-matrixorg-443-ssldefault).

## Systemd service

You will probably want to start it through a service/daemon, the Arch Linux AUR package add this [one](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/pantalaimon.service?h=pantalaimon-git).

Otherwise you can create `~/.config/systemd/user/pantalaimon.service` with this contents :

```conf
[Unit]
Description=pantalaimon daemon
After=network.target

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
ExecStart=/usr/bin/pantalaimon

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

- Start the service : `systemctl --user start pantalaimon.service`
- See if it is running : `systemctl --user status pantalaimon.service`
- Stop the service : `systemctl --user stop pantalaimon.service`
- Enable the service : `systemctl --user enable pantalaimon.service`

# Verify the Pantalaimon session #

## Connect through Pantalaimon ##

Add this code in your Emacs configuration

```emacs-lisp
(defun my-ement-panta-connect ()
  (interactive)
  (ement-connect :uri-prefix "http://localhost:8010" :user-id "@your-identifiant:matrix.org"))
```

Then, do a `M-x my-ement-panta-connect`, choose "password", write your Matrix password, and connect.

You can control your Pantalaimon server by using `panctl` [command](https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/blob/master/docs/man/panctl.md).
If you get an error about DBus here, see : [g-dbus-error-quark](#g-dbus-error-quark)

```console
$ panctl
panctl> list-servers
pantalaimon servers:
 - Name: local-matrix
 - Pan users:
   - @your-identifiant:matrix.org RCXONVDBKV
```

(if the `list-servers` doesn't return anything, it means you aren’t connected with Ement.el, you should connect first)

## Verify Pantalaimon ##

On Element-Desktop :
1. Connect to your account
2. Open the "Settings" page
3. Look at your current Session ID (it should be something like "DWOCPKJVTK")

```console
$ panctl
panctl> start-verification @your-identifiant:matrix.org @your-identifiant:matrix.org DWOCPKJVTK
Successfully started the key verification request
Short authentication string for pan user @your-identifiant:matrix.org from @your-identifiant:matrix.org via DWOCPKJVTK:
     ⚽          ✈️           🚀          🐶          🐎          👍          📕
    Ball      Airplane     Rocket       Dog        Horse     Thumbs up      Book
```

Confirm that they match on Element-Desktop

```console
panctl> confirm-verification @your-identifiant:matrix.org @your-identifiant:matrix.org
Device DWOCPKJVTK of user @your-identifiant:matrix.org successfully verified for pan user @your-identifiant:matrix.org.
```

## Import your rooms keys ##

You will need to get your E2E rooms keys.

On Element-Desktop :
1. Connect to your account
2. Open the "Settings" page
3. Go on the "Security & Privacy" tab
4. Click on "Export E2E room keys"
5. Choose a passphrase (you will need to remember it), and save the `element-keys.txt` file.

```console
panctl> import-keys @your-identifiant:matrix.org element-keys.txt your-passphrase
Successfully imported keys for @your-identifiant:matrix.org from element-keys.txt
```

- You need to disconnect from Ement.el : `M-x ement-disconnect`
- Reconnect : `M-x my-ement-panta-connect`
- Enjoy :-)

# Troubleshooting #


- https://www.cogitri.dev/posts/10-pantalaimon-setup/
- https://github.com/alphapapa/ement.el/issues/153
- https://github.com/alphapapa/ement.el/pull/232


## Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default ##

If you see this error when you open http://localhost:8010/ :

`Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default [Name or service not known]`


or this one with ement.el :

```lisp
Debugger entered--Lisp error: (ement-api-error "500: nil")
  signal(ement-api-error ("500: nil"))
  ement-api-error(#s(plz-error :curl-error nil :response #s(plz-response :version 1.1 :status 500 :headers ((content-type . "text/plain; charset=utf-8") (content-length . "78") (date . "Thu, 23 Nov 2023 02:01:25 GMT") (server . "Python/3.11 aiohttp/3.8.4")) :body "Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default [Name or service not known]") :message nil))
  plz--respond(#<process plz-request-curl> #<buffer  *plz-request-curl*> "finished\n")
  apply(plz--respond (#<process plz-request-curl> #<buffer  *plz-request-curl*> "finished\n"))
```

It probably mean there is a problem in your `~/.config/pantalaimon/pantalaimon.conf`, in particular there should not be comment at the end of line.

```conf
[local-matrix]
Homeserver = https://matrix.org # /!\ this end of line comment will make your configuration fail /!\
```

## g-dbus-error-quark ##

If you get this error :

`g-dbus-error-quark: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.pantalaimon1 was not provided by any .service files`

Your are maybe lacking the `python-notify2` librairy.

Commit message:

"Element on android not working for the verification"

using-pantalaimon.md, after:

# How to use encrypted room #

Ement.el doesn't support encrypted rooms natively, but it can be used transparently with the E2EE-aware reverse proxy daemon [Pantalaimon](https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/).

1. [Install Pantalaimon](#Install-Pantalaimon)
2. [Configure Pantalaimon](#Configure-Pantalaimon)
3. [Verify the Pantalaimon session](#Verify-the-Pantalaimon-session)
4. [Troubleshooting](#Troubleshooting)

# Install Pantalaimon #

## Arch Linux

There is a [pantalaimon-git](https://aur.archlinux.org/packages/pantalaimon-git) package in AUR.

```console
$ yay -S pantalaimon-git
```

## Alpine Linux

```
$ apk add pantalaimon pantalaimon-ui # Not tested
```

## Other

See https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/blob/master/README.md#installation

```console
$ pantalaimon --version
pantalaimon, version 0.10.5
```

# Configure Pantalaimon #

Create ta file in `~/.config/pantalaimon/pantalaimon.conf` with this contents

```conf
[local-matrix]
# Should be replaced with the server your are using if it isn’t matrix.org
Homeserver = https://matrix.org
ListenAddress = localhost
ListenPort = 8010
SSL = False
UseKeyring = False
IgnoreVerification = True
```

Then start the pantalaimon server.

```console
$ pantalaimon
======== Starting daemon for homeserver local-matrix on http://127.0.0.1:8010 ========
(Press CTRL+C to quit)
```

Alternatively, you can also use the `--log-level debug` option to see what is going on if something doesn’t work.

```console
$ pantalaimon --log-level debug
```

Now if you open http://localhost:8010/ you should see the https://matrix.org/ web page. If you get a error about `ssl`, go [here](#cannot-connect-to-host-matrixorg-443-ssldefault).

## Systemd service

You will probably want to start it through a service/daemon, the Arch Linux AUR package add this [one](https://aur.archlinux.org/cgit/aur.git/tree/pantalaimon.service?h=pantalaimon-git).

Otherwise you can create `~/.config/systemd/user/pantalaimon.service` with this contents :

```conf
[Unit]
Description=pantalaimon daemon
After=network.target

[Service]
Restart=on-failure
RestartSec=3
ExecStart=/usr/bin/pantalaimon

[Install]
WantedBy=default.target
```

- Start the service : `systemctl --user start pantalaimon.service`
- See if it is running : `systemctl --user status pantalaimon.service`
- Stop the service : `systemctl --user stop pantalaimon.service`
- Enable the service : `systemctl --user enable pantalaimon.service`

# Verify the Pantalaimon session #

## Connect through Pantalaimon ##

Add this code in your Emacs configuration

```emacs-lisp
(defun my-ement-panta-connect ()
  (interactive)
  (ement-connect :uri-prefix "http://localhost:8010" :user-id "@your-identifiant:matrix.org"))
```

Then, do a `M-x my-ement-panta-connect`, choose "password", write your Matrix password, and connect.

You can control your Pantalaimon server by using `panctl` [command](https://github.com/matrix-org/pantalaimon/blob/master/docs/man/panctl.md).

```console
$ panctl
panctl> list-servers
pantalaimon servers:
 - Name: local-matrix
 - Pan users:
   - @your-identifiant:matrix.org RCXONVDBKV
```

If you get an error about DBus here, see : [g-dbus-error-quark](#g-dbus-error-quark)

If the `list-servers` doesn't return anything, it means you aren’t connected with Ement.el, you should connect first.

## Verify Pantalaimon ##

On Element-Desktop :
1. Connect to your account
2. Open the "Settings" page
3. Look at your current Session ID (it should be something like "DWOCPKJVTK")

(It seems to not work on the Element application on Android, so try with Element-Desktop)

```console
$ panctl
panctl> start-verification @your-identifiant:matrix.org @your-identifiant:matrix.org DWOCPKJVTK
Successfully started the key verification request
Short authentication string for pan user @your-identifiant:matrix.org from @your-identifiant:matrix.org via DWOCPKJVTK:
     ⚽          ✈️           🚀          🐶          🐎          👍          📕
    Ball      Airplane     Rocket       Dog        Horse     Thumbs up      Book
```

Confirm that they match on Element-Desktop

```console
panctl> confirm-verification @your-identifiant:matrix.org @your-identifiant:matrix.org
Device DWOCPKJVTK of user @your-identifiant:matrix.org successfully verified for pan user @your-identifiant:matrix.org.
```

## Import your rooms keys ##

You will need to get your E2E rooms keys.

On Element-Desktop :
1. Connect to your account
2. Open the "Settings" page
3. Go on the "Security & Privacy" tab
4. Click on "Export E2E room keys"
5. Choose a passphrase (you will need to remember it), and save the `element-keys.txt` file.

```console
panctl> import-keys @your-identifiant:matrix.org element-keys.txt your-passphrase
Successfully imported keys for @your-identifiant:matrix.org from element-keys.txt
```

- You need to disconnect from Ement.el : `M-x ement-disconnect`
- Reconnect : `M-x my-ement-panta-connect`
- Enjoy :-)

# Troubleshooting #


- https://www.cogitri.dev/posts/10-pantalaimon-setup/
- https://github.com/alphapapa/ement.el/issues/153
- https://github.com/alphapapa/ement.el/pull/232


## Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default ##

If you see this error when you open http://localhost:8010/ :

`Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default [Name or service not known]`


or this one with ement.el :

```lisp
Debugger entered--Lisp error: (ement-api-error "500: nil")
  signal(ement-api-error ("500: nil"))
  ement-api-error(#s(plz-error :curl-error nil :response #s(plz-response :version 1.1 :status 500 :headers ((content-type . "text/plain; charset=utf-8") (content-length . "78") (date . "Thu, 23 Nov 2023 02:01:25 GMT") (server . "Python/3.11 aiohttp/3.8.4")) :body "Cannot connect to host matrix.org :443 ssl:default [Name or service not known]") :message nil))
  plz--respond(#<process plz-request-curl> #<buffer  *plz-request-curl*> "finished\n")
  apply(plz--respond (#<process plz-request-curl> #<buffer  *plz-request-curl*> "finished\n"))
```

It probably mean there is a problem in your `~/.config/pantalaimon/pantalaimon.conf`, in particular there should not be comment at the end of line.

```conf
[local-matrix]
Homeserver = https://matrix.org # /!\ this end of line comment will make your configuration fail /!\
```

## g-dbus-error-quark ##

If you get this error :

`g-dbus-error-quark: GDBus.Error:org.freedesktop.DBus.Error.ServiceUnknown: The name org.pantalaimon1 was not provided by any .service files`

Your are maybe lacking the `python-notify2` librairy.
